## Open Electronic Legal Notices

This project is working toward enabling a broadly usable electronic method for fair, effectice legal notices.  


There are a lot of different sorts of legal notices and they frequently have different requirements. 

The big ocean of legal notices (actual notice, constructive notice and otherwise) can be handled nicely through a neutral registry operating two service types: "Notify the General Public" and "Notify a Specific Person".  

* A "notify-public" service can be thought of as a web site published at a well known URL, a public RSS feed, or even a web service integrated forward for further reach (eg, segmented for further targeted publication as part of mass-communications by regulated or other publishing houses such as television, radio, utility bills/notices, government mailings, etc.).

* A "notify-party" service can be thought of like a pub-sub component or even an email "sent return-receipt" or "confirm-when-opened" type email notice but without relying on caveman email, obviously.  

Making it very practical and easy and cost-effective for all the parties who must put others on notice to use such a service can be handled largely by smart design of a registry system.  Authorized and secure endpoints for publishers of notice is one key.  Agreed standards, formats, etc is another.  The most important, however, relates to identity or attributes or identity of the people or population to be notified.  

At the Human Dynamics Lab (under Sandy Pentland and his big data portfolio) we have been working on ways to solve the hard problem of identity in the context of large-scale legal notice systems intended to provide notice to particular groups or sub-populations of the general public.  The solution that was eventually developed is deceptively simple: just use OpenID Connect as the account service technology and the tough business, legal and technical requirements for adoptability and sustained operation become tractable.  Using a registry and legal notice configuration of standard OpenID Connect not only can make the use of such a system very easy for individuals and others who must provide or receive notices, but it also presents a business risk/revenue proposition that can provide greater value than cost to all parties at each phase of a roll out.  My projections show good value even at small scale for, say, the City of Boston legal notices and greater value at state-wide use with somewhat greater value (depending on size of state and spread of user scenarios) when expanded to regional scale.  The big big spike of value comes at national scale usage for a legal notice system.   

The basic paradigm is described as part of the "ClearButton" system which we created to provide a way for people to request and receive personal data when a statute or other rule requires an organization to give it to them (eg HIPAA, the Federal Privacy Act of 74, the Mass Fair Information Practices Act Ch 66A, etc).  This involves legal notices at it's core and the info sent to somebody that "my org has personal data about you" is a basic electronic legal notice scenario.  We also go further to show how the person notified can click the notice link to take a look at the data in question and could sometimes, if permitted, even request a copy of the data through proper channels.  The electronic legal notice services are lesser-included.  You just need a neutral registry to handle getting notices and distributing them according to neutral and highly reliable REST interfaces and other key services (no new tech or standards needed here at all).  

Check out: http://clearbutton.net/ for deets.  Can provide the GitHub and other project materials and prototype stuff we did.  There is also a project on the IDESG (NSTIC) wiki we did, modeling how "Do Not Call" and "Mobile Number Portability" neutral 3rd party registry systems operate under rules, business models and consmer-protection and industry-adoption models that can be used in part to design and build prototypes, pilots and initial production systems at small (City) level in a way that still provide more value than cost to each party involved. 
